+++
title = "Average Wage don't exist"
date = 2023-04-09

[extra]
katex = true
+++

In this post, I will aboard the miss understood word average, this theme
irritates me, every time somebody uses the average word, on any kind of topic.

It makes me ponder about the mental sanity of the person, I will say it in one
word, MOSTLY OF THE USE OF AVERAGE IS WRONG, it doesn't matter how beautiful is
the person, or the PDF with colorful graphs, and animations, any number that
describes the "average" as a fake one.

## What's average

Probably you know that average means the number that most repeat on a
collection, a big quantity of data, or a graph.

The origin of an average comes from the [normal
distribution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Normal_distribution), in statistics
this is a kind of distribution to represent real-valued random variables whose
values are independent, this kind of distribution is also called the bell curve
(for obvious reasons).

![Bell Curve](/bell_curve_example.jpg)

One of the reasons that this distribution is so well known, it's because it's
very easy to apply in any topic or arrangement of data, however, it's easy to
apply in the wrong contexts, and this is exactly the central reason for the
the theme of the post. In this kind of distribution, the average would be the central
value, it makes sense, if the average is the number that most repeat, the central section is the average.

The common assumption that most take from this kind of distribution, is that
the "normal" is to be on the average, in the middle of the graph, it's there
where most of the data is located, I think that most think in this way because
not being in the center means being different from most, being uncommon or
wrong, also a side note, as a personal recommendation, don't try to be so
"common", seriously it's so incredible when someone is original, and not only a
representation of most ones, there's no reason to feel bad about not being
normal.

## Power Law

However wealth, number of sales, number of followers on social networks, size
of cities by population, size of companies, the volume traded on the stock
exchange, none of them fit in a normal distribution.

On power laws, the frequency is inversely proportional to its ranking in the
list, and most importantly, the difference between each ranking position does
not decrease or increase linearly, this is the family of distributions called
power law

As the name suggests, a power law shows qualities as fractals, which means that
doesn't matter how deep you look or how far away, the shape of the graph always
looks the same, it doesn't matter the scale, and there're other differences
from normal distributions, first of all, a power law doesn't have a top, on
normal distributions there's a top but on power laws, this doesn't exist, the
graph of power laws is a declining curve.

Remember normal distribution work when the events are independent of each
other.

![Power law](/long_tail_example.jpg)

And the most important one, the real world, especially when we talk about
income, it's complex, and fits into a power law, one example is the Pareto
distribution, remember the 80% and 20% rule, 80% of the wealth is accumulated
on 20% of the population.

Like this or not, the reality, is that we live in a complex system and many
things are power laws. This is the reason why I say that there's no the average
wage, how it's possible to have an average wage if even the graph is not normal,
your income is not related to the average, at each improvement of the value you
scale the graph reaching the head.

In this kind of curve, there are no classes, everyone is one or two numbers
richer than another one.

### Power laws on social media

As you may think already, the number of followers on social media is also
power laws, and by the dynamic of power laws it's possible to increase
followers or not, you start at the bottom of the distribution with one
follower, you work hard and get ten followers, still looks like nothing, but
you keep increasing, you keep reaching the head.

And it's because of this that when someone on social media says some shit, the
position of this someone decreases approaching the tail, so don't compare
yourself with someone high, you still are not there, you can reach, but until
then you have to keep working hard to improve each day, reaching the head, and
fuck the world around you, you're yourself not others, don't matter if everyone
hates you, I feel it myself.


