+++
title = "Parasites vs Creators"
description = "Be a creator"
date = 2023-04-22
+++

Today I want to make an indulgence. There's a text by an author that I
obviously like a lot and that I've always wanted to try to speak about. And
some sad events in the last few days reminded me of this text so I kind of
wanted to mark the date with that.

Thousands of years ago, the first person discovered how to make fire. He or she
was probably burned at the stake but ended up teaching his or her siblings how
to light. He was considered an evildoer who dealt with a demon that humanity
feared. But then everyone used fire to keep warm, to cook their food, to light
their caves.

These people gave a gift that no one could have imagined and brought the world
out of the darkness. Centuries later, the first person invented the wheel. This
person was probably tortured on the same wheel that he taught his brothers to
build. He was considered a transgressor who ventured into forbidden territory.
But then everyone was able to travel there, to all horizons. This person gave a
gift that no one had imagined and opened the roads of the world.

This first person is in the opening chapter of every legend that humanity has
recorded about its beginnings. Prometheus was chained to a rock and tortured by
vultures for stealing fire from the gods. Adam was condemned to suffer for
having eaten the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge. Whatever the legend, mankind
has learned that his glory began with one person, and that person paid for his
courage.

Over the centuries there have been people who have taken the first steps on new
roads, armed only with their vision. Their goals differed but they all had this
in common: the response they received – hate.

The great creators, thinkers, artists, scientists, and inventors stood alone
against the people of their time. Every great new thought has been opposed, and
every great new invention has been denounced. The first engine was considered
ridiculous. The plane was considered impossible. The power loom was considered
cruel. Anesthesia was considered a sin. But men with a vision of their own
continued on. They fought, suffered, and paid. But they won.

No creator was motivated by the desire to serve his brothers, as his brothers
rejected the gift he gave and that gift destroyed the idle routine of their
lives. His truth was her only motive. Your own truth and your own work to
achieve your result in your own way. A symphony, a book, a machine, a
philosophy, an airplane, or a building – these were his goals and his life.

Not those who heard, read, operated, flew, or inhabited the thing he created.
The creation, not its users. The creation, not the benefits others derived from
it. The creation that shaped your truth. He held his truth ABOVE all things and
against all. His vision, his strength, and his courage came from his own
spirit. That entity is called conscience. Thinking, feeling, judging, and
acting are functions of the ego.

The creators were not altruistic. That is the secret of their power – being
self-sufficient, self-motivated, and self-generated. The creator served nothing
and no one. He lived himself. And only by living for himself could he achieve
the things that are the glory of mankind. Such is the nature of the feat.

We cannot survive except through our minds. We come to earth defenseless. Our
brain is our only weapon. Animals get food by force. We don't have claws, we
don't have fangs, we don't have a great strength of muscles. We have to grow
our food or hunt it. To plant, we need a thought process. To hunt we need
weapons and to make weapons – is a thought process.

From that simple need to the highest religious abstraction, from the wheel to
skyscrapers, everything we are and everything we have comes from a single
attribute – the function of our mental reasoning. But the mind is an attribute
of the individual. There is no collective mind. There is no collective
thinking. An understanding reached by a group of people is just a compromise or
an average. It is a secondary consequence.

The primary act – the reasoning process – must be done by each person
individually. We can share a meal with several people. But we cannot digest it
in a collective stomach. No one can use their lungs to breathe for someone
else. No one can use your brain

to think for someone else. All functions of body and spirit are private. They
cannot be shared or transferred.

We inherit the thought products of others. We inherited the wheel. We made a
wagon. The wagon has become an automobile. The automobile has become an
airplane. But throughout the entire process, what we receive from others is
just the end product of their thinking. The driving force is the creative
faculty, which takes this product as material, uses it, and originates the next
step. This creative faculty cannot be given or received, loaned or borrowed. It
belongs to a single individual. What you create is the property of the creator.
People learn from each other. But all learning is just an exchange of material.
No one can give another the ability to think. However, this ability is our only
means of survival.

Nothing on earth is given to us. Everything we need has to be produced. And
here we only have one alternative: we can only survive in two ways – by working
independently of our own mind OR as a parasite fed by the minds of others.

The creator originates. The parasite steals. The creator faces nature alone.
The parasite faces nature through an intermediary. The creator's concern is the
conquest of nature. The parasite's concern is the conquest of people. The
creator lives by his work. He doesn't need others. His primary objective is
within himself. The parasite lives off others. He needs others. Others become
his primary objective.

The creator's basic need is independence. The reasoning mind cannot work under
any form of coercion. It cannot be bent, sacrificed, or subordinated. It
requires complete independence in function and motive. For the creator, all
relationships are secondary. The parasite's basic need is to secure its
relationship with people to be fed. For him, relationships are above all else.
He declares that people exist to serve others. He preaches altruism, which is
the doctrine that requires man to live for others and give more importance to
others than himself. No one can live for another. But those who live at the
expense of others have used altruism as a weapon of exploitation and have
inverted the foundation of humanity's moral principles. They started teaching
things that destroy the creator. It was taught that dependency is a virtue.

Anyone who tries to live because of others is dependent. It is a parasite in
its motivation and makes parasites of those it serves as well. This
relationship produces nothing but mutual corruption. It is impossible to
conceive of such a relationship. The closest example in reality, who lives to
serve others, is the slave. If physical slavery is disgusting, how much more
disgusting is the concept of spiritual slavery? The slave, even subjugated,
still retains a vestige of honor. He has the merit of having resisted and of
knowing that his condition is revolting. But whoever voluntarily enslaves
himself in the name of love is the most despicable creature that exists. It
degrades human dignity AND it degrades the concept of love.

But that is the essence of altruism. We were taught that the greatest virtue is
not to perform, it is to give. But nothing can be given before it is created.
Creation precedes distribution or there would be nothing to distribute. The
creator's needs take precedence over those of any potential beneficiaries.
However, we are taught to have more admiration for the parasite who distributes
gifts he did not create than for those who made the gifts possible. We praise
an act of charity and are indifferent to an act of achievement.

We are taught that our first concern is to alleviate the suffering of others.
But suffering is a disease. If someone is faced with another person suffering,
it is normal to try to help and provide assistance. But to make that decision
the most crucial test of one's virtue is to make the suffering of others the
most important part of life. Under this perspective, the person ends up wanting
others to suffer, so that he can be virtuous. That is the nature of altruism.
The creator is not concerned with the disease but with life. Still, the
creator's work has eliminated disease after disease, curing people's bodies and
spirits alike, and has alleviated human suffering on a scale no altruist could
ever conceive of.

We were taught that agreeing with others is a virtue. But the creator is the
one who disagrees. We were taught that swimming with the current is a virtue.
But the creator is the one who goes against the grain. We were taught that
uniting with others is a virtue. But the creator is the one left alone. We were
taught that the ego is synonymous with evil and that forgetting the ego and
being altruistic is the ideal of virtue. But the creator is the egoist in the
most absolute sense, and an egoless person does not think, feel, judge, or act.
These are ego functions.

This inversion is absolutely fatal. This question has been perverted and left
us with no

no alternative and no freedom. Two conceptions were offered to us as poles of
good and evil: altruism and selfishness. Selfishness came to mean the sacrifice
of others for one's own benefit; altruism, self-sacrifice for the benefit of
others. These conceptions bound us irrevocably to each other and left us with
only one choice of pain: our own pain, borne for the benefit of others, or
inflicted on others, for our own benefit. When they added the idea that we
should rejoice in self-sacrifice and self-immolation, the trap was closed. We
have been forced to accept masochism as our ideal, under the threat that sadism
is our only alternative.

This was the greatest fraud ever perpetrated against humanity. This was the
ploy that made addiction and suffering perpetuate as essential principles of
life. The choice is not a personal sacrifice or dominion over others. It is
independence or dependence. The creator's code or the parasite's code lives at
the expense of others. This is the basic question.

The creator's code is built according to the needs of the rational mind, which
allows man to survive. The parasite's code is constructed according to the
needs of a mind incapable of ensuring its own survival. Everything that results
from people's independent ego is good. Everything that results from one
person's dependence on another is bad. The egoist, in the most absolute sense,
is not the one who sacrifices others. The selfish person is above the need to
use others in any way. We don't work through them. We don't exist for anyone's
benefit and we don't ask anyone to exist for our benefit. This is the only
possible form of mutual respect between people.

Degrees of ability vary, but the basic principle remains the same: the degree
of independence, initiative, and love for your work is what determines our
talent as workers and our value as people. Our independence is the only measure
of our virtue and worth: what we are, and what we make of ourselves; not what
we have done, or failed to do for others.

There is no substitute for personal dignity. The only standard of personal
worthiness that exists is our independence. In all respectable relationships,
no one sacrifices himself for anyone else. For example, an architect needs
clients, but he does not subordinate his work to their wishes. And they need an
architect, but they don't order a house just to give you work. Men exchange the
labor of their own free will, with mutual consent and for mutual advantage,
whenever their personal interests coincide and both desire the exchange. If
they do not wish to deal with each other, they are not forced to do so. Both
can continue to go their separate ways. This is the only possible form of
relationship between equals. Any other is an abusive relationship between slave
and owner, or between victim and executioner.

Those who dominate others are not selfish. They don't create anything. Its
existence depends entirely on others. His aim lies in his subjects, his
followers, in the act of enslaving them. They are as dependent as the beggar,
the social worker, and the crook. The form of dependency does not matter. But
we have been taught to see the parasites who live off others - the tyrants,
emperors, and dictators - as the exponents of selfishness. Through this
deception, we were led to destroy the ego, ourselves, and others. The purpose
of the fraud was to destroy the creators. Or subdue them.

Since the dawn of history, the two antagonists have faced each other face to
face: the creator and the parasite. When the first creator invented the wheel,
the first parasite reacted. He invented altruism. The creator, rejected,
harassed, persecuted, exploited, persevered, moved forward and with his energy
carried all humanity with him. The parasite has contributed nothing to this
process, only obstacles. This dispute has another name: the individual against
the collective.

The 'common good' of the collective... of race, gender, class, state... was the
claim and justification of all tyrannies established over humanity. History's
greatest horrors were committed in the name of altruistic motives. Where is the
fault: in the hypocrisy of the altruists or their principle? The worst
executioners were the most sincere. They believed in the perfect society
achieved through the guillotine and the firing squad.

No one questioned their right to kill because they killed for altruistic
motives. The idea that we should be sacrificed for the benefit of others is
well established. The actors and the scenery change, but the course of the
tragedy remains the same. Humanitarians start by declaring their love for
humanity and end up with bloodshed. So it was and so it will be as long as an
action is believed to be good if it is altruistic. This belief gives the
altruist

s permission to act and force his victims to suffer in silence. Leaders of
collectivist movements ask nothing for themselves. But watch the results. The
only way we can benefit each other, and the only statement of a proper
relationship between us, is, 'Stay out of the way!'

This is a very old conflict. Every time people came close to discovering the
truth, they were destroyed, and civilizations perished, one after another.
Civilization is progressing towards a society of privacy. A wildling's entire
existence is public, governed by the laws of his tribe. Civilization is the
process of freeing people from each other. Now, in our age, collectivism, the
reign of the parasite who lives off others and the mediocre, the ancient
monster is on the loose and running amok. It takes people to a level of
intellectual indecency never equaled on the face of the Earth. It is causing
horrors on an unprecedented scale. They poisoned all minds.

I came here to say that I don't recognize anyone's right to even one minute of
my life. Nor any part of my energy. Nor any achievement of mine. I don't care
who makes the demand, how many make it, or how big your need is. I wanted to
come here and say that I am a person who does not exist to serve others. This
needed to be said. The world is perishing because of an orgy of self-sacrifice.
I wanted to come here and say that the integrity of one's creative work is far
more important than any charitable project. Those among you who do not
understand this are the ones who are destroying the world. I wanted to come
here and dictate my terms. I have no interest in existing under any others.

I do not recognize any obligation to anyone, with one exception: to respect
your freedom and not participate in any way in a slave society.

This text is authored by Ayn Rand, it is part of the famous speech at the trial
of Howard Roark, in the book The Fountainhead, or The Fountainhead. Obviously,
it is a work of fiction and an allegory that defines what is the ideal of a
creative person against a society of parasites. As fiction, it is not a book of
recipes or procedures, just a perspective that can be useful to different
people who want to take control of their own lives.

